# Understanding how the structure of scale free network models impact COVID-19 transmission within a small population and the subsequent impact of natural immunity on resurgence events.

Summary:
The newly emerged pathogen SARS-CoV-2, the causative agent of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), triggered a global pandemic in 2020 that continues to challenge healthcare systems around the world.  Computational models have been utilised to project the infection rates possible at national level and to suggest the most successful mitigation strategies which policymakers can implement. This study aims to model how differing scale-free network parameters would impact the initial infection wave of a pandemic across a small population. This can be used to reflect COVID-19 transmission in different community structures found across a country as opposed to the generalisation that the social network structure is consistent across a nation. Ultimately, this work found that increases to the average number of social contacts within a network significantly increases the size and speed at which the initial peak of infection is reached suggesting healthcare facilities serving more connected communities are likely to be overwhelmed following the introduction of SARS-CoV-2. These finding support mitigation strategies like ‘lockdown’ as successful methods for reduced COVID-19 transmission. Subsequently the effect of natural immunity length on any COVID-19 resurgence events across the same scale-free network was investigated. Second and third waves of COVID-19 infection were found to be smaller with increased time between them when natural-immunity lasts longer. The successful protection of natural immunity suggests different strategies for vaccination, targeting those with no prior exposure over individuals with previously confirmed infection. With the rise of SARS-CoV-2 variants, the conformation that natural immunity can successfully reduce transmission in the absence of other mitigation strategies will prove vital in controlling the COVID-19 pandemic.   

Code is derived from that published by Herrmann and Schwartz at DOI: 10.1088/1478-3975/aba8ec.
